= Notes about the kernel builder
include::_support/common.inc[]

The “Kernel builder” is a set of attributes available on the `mobile-nixos`
attribute overlaid on top of Nixpkgs.

```
mobile-nixos.kernel-builder
mobile-nixos.kernel-builder-clang_9
mobile-nixos.kernel-builder-gcc49
mobile-nixos.kernel-builder-gcc6
```

At the base level, they are made available pre-versioned with a
compiler-specific `stdenv` so that OEM kernels requiring a specific compiler to
either build or boot can use the right compiler version.

The kernel builder additionally provides configuration options to work with
common quirks in kernel builds.


== Choosing the right builder

There is no clear and fast rule for this. The most likely suggestion is to look
at the kernel version string for a kernel built from the sources you are using.
It should describe the compiler being used.

Another way to figure out which builder to use is to compare kernel derivations
either for devices using the same SoC. It often happens that basic quirks like
requiring specific compilers are rooted in changes from the first party that
forked the kernels, the SoC vendor.


== Choosing quirks

=== `isQcdt`

When true, the build will use `dtbTool` to build a QCDT _device-tree image_.

By default it will use the FDTs from the appropriate `arch/*/boot` folder from
the kernel build. The directory to use can be changed using `qcdt_dtbs`.

=== `isExynosDT`

When true, the build will use `dtbTool-exynos` to build a _device-tree image_
for the device.

By default it will use the FDTs from the appropriate `arch/*/boot/dts/`
folder from the kernel build. The pattern to use can be changed using
`exynos_dtbs`.

Additionally, the platform code and subtype codes can be configured with
`exynos_platform` and `exynos_subtype`, though the default are likely to work.

=== `isImageGzDtb`

When true, the build will enable support for android-specific "Image.gz-dtb"
appended images.

It is most likely this is needed if `isQcdt` is not used for Android-based
devices.

=== `isCompressed`

Set to the compression algorithm for the kernel. For the time being only `"gz"`
or `false` are valid values. By default it is `"gz"`.

=== `enableRemovingWerror`

Goes through all `Makefile` files from the kernel source tree and removes the
instances of `-Werror`.

This is generally used when building a kernel with a newer compiler than which
was used when the kernel was authored.

=== `enableCompilerGcc6Quirk`

When true, a `compiler-gcc6.h` is added to the expected location for the kernel
build. This is generally only needed for older kernels.

=== `enableCenteredLinuxLogo`

When enabled, the kernel source will be patched to force only one instance of
the _logo_ to be shown, and centered on the display.

This is used to provide a graphical element before the stage-1 init is running.

This is enabled by default. Note that on some systems the feature does not work
even when enabled. Keep it enabled as it is a no-op.

=== `enableLinuxLogoReplacement`

When enabled, the file `linuxLogo224PPMFile` points at will be used to replace
the `drivers/video/logo/logo_linux_clut224.ppm` file in the kernel source tree.

This effectively replaces the Tux logo.

By default an appropriate file is provided by Mobile NixOS.

=== `enableCompilerGcc6Quirk`

When enabled, building and installing is done in one single step. Some kernels,
mainly prior to 4.4, will rebuild the kernel from scratch when installing. Work
around the issue by using only one make invocation.

This defaults to `true` for kernel versions prior to 4.4.

Using the wrong value can either:

 * be a no-op
 * make the build take twice as long
 * fail the build in obvious ways

There have been no _weird side-effects_ observed when using the wrong value.
Touching this value, other than outright failing the build, will not make a
kernel that doesn't boot otherwise boot.


== Making a new port

There is no porting guides yet. The current recommendation is to look for a
kernel derivation from a device using the same or a similar SoC and use it as
a starting point.
